uprtnd

The block of land in the bottom left corner of the map, which was formerly a home in 1700, has been divided into two, with a supermarket on the east side next to Saint Peter's Street. On the west side of the property, where there were businesses and a sizable grassy area in 1700, there are now residential homes next to Streggle street, as well as an addition of shops that are lined along High street. The Goode farm was located north of the market square in 1700. In its stead, six houses have been constructed next to Steggle road, a car park has taken the position of Goode farm entirely, and other buildings have been lined up just to the west of Market street.


The following boring paraph tells map illiterate people how the Town centre is laid out.

A market square can be seen in the center of the entire map. A hotel is located to the left of the market square, while a church is located to the right. Stables are located above St. Peters Lane to the right of all that clutter, and two residences are located over those stables. Goode Farm, a sizable property across Market Street, is crossed by a bridge that spans a surprisingly narrow river to the left of it. Steggle Farm and Houses are located on the bottom left and right corners of the map, respectively. Three stores are located parallel to the horizontal street at the bottom. There are some fields beneath the shops.

A supermarket is located on the east side of the plot of land that was once a house at the bottom left corner of the map, next to Saint Peter's Street. The plot was once a home in 1700. There are currently residential homes close to Streggle street on the west side of the land where there were enterprises and fields in 1700, as well as an addition of shops that are lined along High street. In 1700, the Goode farm was positioned to the north of the market. Six new homes have been built adjacent to Steggle Road in its place, Goode Farm has completely been replaced by a parking lot, and other structures have been stacked up close to the west of Market Street.







- YES.

- Who wants to work anyway?
-- why do you want to work?
--- you want to work for money
---- in the future robots would do almost everything. So goods won't really cost money.
---- For example, if robots took over the entire farming industry, why would food be worth anything? it wouldnt.

--- You want to work because you are insecure and need something to do to find your identity
---- then you just work and not get paid. Why not?

conclusion: who cares about the workforce being threatened if Quality of life improves.
TLDR; More robot -> stuff cheap -> no work needed; UBI solves everything.

Benefits: stuff are cheap. Teachers will be replaced.
Disbeneficialities: stubborn people want jobs for no reason.
stupid gap widens. (people in the stupid job industries get replaced). Well its their fault if they dont want to learn.









I believe the ultimate goal of humanity right now is just to prolong our lifespan. Aging is the world's most prominent disease, and I believe curing aging is right around the corner, and I think studying biochemistry will be the most helpful for me, to learn about how cells work at a molecular level, because I aspire to personally contribute to anti-aging research as much as I can. Biochemistry is a field that is constantly evolving and has the potential to make a significant impact on society. I am drawn to the idea that biochemistry can be used to solve real-world problems, and I feel compelled to help find solutions by furthering my education in this field. 

  

Although I am a very practical person, I am still interested in most science subjects, but in my view, the school system in Hong Kong was not challenging my mind at all and was limiting my ability to learn in the most efficient way on account of wasting my time. I have enjoyed spending my free time learning programming and creating unique programs to shorten my work flow. Maintaining these projects and creating new things were very fulfilling to me because they were challenging enough to pique my interest, so I made significant progress with learning programming from high-level to low-level languages in the free time I had. As someone with a background in programming, I have always been fascinated by the intersection of technology and biology. This curiosity has led me to pursue studies in biochemistry, as I believe that understanding the underlying chemical processes that occur within human beings is crucial for developing new technologies that can benefit humanity. 

  

I was always very intrigued by how life works on a molecular level and how all organisms function. As a child, I was very surprised by the fact that there are still a lot of things about how the human body works that are not known, which further sparked my curiosity and interest. From my few trips to the Hong Kong university, I have visited a few of their biology labs, and each time I entered, the sublime quiet solidified my opinion that I wanted to be studying biochemistry. 

  

In conclusion, I am eager to pursue a degree in biochemistry because of my passion for science, my desire to solve real-world problems, and my commitment to making a difference in society. I am excited for the opportunity to further my education and contribute to the ever-evolving field of biochemistry. 







Dear prestgious istitution 
may thy ask how could thyself submit thy supporting documentations for yours truelys blemishing institution, 



meeting note

overall experince :

-achivemant 
1.hallowen

-because a lot of oppjection change to a lot of agree 
-hallowen related customes
-mix sence?
-parents?
-
after pendemic the first su in sku
-
norvell suggestion 
-last su achivemant 
-lunch time performent (very good)

lunch better more fresh 

2.
activty plan more early and need to have plan b

ONE ACTIVTY PIC CAN MORE

3
 his cam is so trash 

 4 
 raltionship leaeder of tmr
 not just one to do need to work in whole cabinect

stupid



post exam activities
Dinno:
s1 30/6 9-10:30 classroom -> cover playground -> running man

Prop, PIC, everything you need.

SPENDING MONEY
5k  <- soft
14k <- sch facility

microphones
Amps
speakers
new sports equipment
basically turines



11:30-1

                                                                                                                     






Subject: F**king Submission of Supporting Documents for Application, You B**tards

Dear Sh*tty Imaginary Admission Officer,

I'm about to f**king apply to your godd*mn fictional university, but I can't find any f**king information on how to submit my d*mn supporting documents. Seriously, what kind of f**ked up website do you guys have? It's like you don't even want us to apply, you imbeciles.

You better get your sh*t together and tell me how the f**k I'm supposed to send these d*mn documents. Is it through some sh*tty online portal, or do I have to waste my f**king time mailing them to your dumb*ss office?

Don't even think about taking your sweet f**king time to reply, because I swear to god, I'll lose my sh*t. And you better give me a clear, f**king detailed explanation, or I'll unleash my wrath on your incompetent university.

Looking forward to your f**king response,

[Your F**king Name]

P.S. You're damn lucky I even considered applying to your trashy, fictional university. Get your sh*t together.




















consumers will benefit from the increased efficincy 

when you have a negative advrt campaign, what are the effects




first friday of march last day

same venue

sports day closing arrangement (sit on grass)

6/29
Li chui chi kei
last day 
3/1



My claim X: the ONLY reason you care about intention is becaues it affects outcome

True or false: you believe that the intentions matter when outcome is the same


There are two types of scenarios.
1. a scenario where outcome is guaranteed to be the same
2. a scenario where outcome is not the same (real word)

note that in both scenarios, "outcome" is something at least somewhat subjectively measurable

for every time you are trying to prove that you only care about intention, you are giving an example of some scenario with DIFFERENT intentions and SAME outcome.

Ask yourself, whether the action is REALLY THE SAME.

Is the reason why you care about the intention because people with that intention are more likely in the future to to give you outcomes that benefit you?


It is important to consider that every action has a long term affect that would make the outcome different
Even if the short term outcome is the same <- this is why we need to educate people about long term effects, so that they learn the outcome is actually not the same.

For the case of teaching, carrie chan probably doesnt know that her students hate her because of what she does, or doesnt understand the long term outcome consequence for the students by being a strict teacher.

For the case of voting, the person who treats both the racist and thinking voter the same would be a fool, because they're only looking at the short term outcome.
The reason why you should choose the thinking voter is because in the future they would have more of a chance to produce an outcome that matches what you want.









Our dear opponents told us that a competative market creates a more leveled playing field.
Dear opponents, have you ever considered that the size of different companies create a horrible uneven playing field especially in negative advertizing? Imagine big companies targeting small companies in negative advertising campaigns. it would be so skewed because consumers are already used to trusting the big companies. Imagine the small company having to deal with an abundance of biased information presented by the giant company. 
How is this a level playing field?


people dont pay attention to ads -> success rate?

We said that people dont pay attentions to ads and our dear opponents gave examples of successful advertisements.
i think our dear opponents are misunderstanding our point.
we said that to illustrate that consumers are very vulnerable to biased and false information. If anything successful negative advertisements are successful because it represents information in a way that tricks people into thinking 


Hostile and harmful market, can be conducted in respectful promote healthy comp -> they are encouraged
Although unethical, overstated. can be conducted responsibly. by holding companies accountable more ethical -> literally biased



effectiveness: 
showing shortcoming may seem unethical
willing to be critical of others: more honest, increases the trust highlighting their unique strengths




not inherant irrisponsible






enhance consumer education, making our market healthily competative
educate.

promote healathy competition. Are you sure it is healthy?

perspective of freedom and effectiveness


end up beneficial. How? answer us opponents, how is biased information good for the market? are you sure this is informing the consumers?

lost of trust -> extreme cases. usual advertisement. Again i will tell you how the examples in our case

banning -> infringing on the rights. 
limit the ability to communicate


neg = not ethical : when comapnies are exposing weakness, its not ethical. consumers have the right to know the weaknesses to have an informed choice



holding business accountable, drawing attention to more important features of products

hostile -> competition ofcourse there is criticism (why cant competition be positive)
society is developed by competition. why cant the competition be positive instead of stepping on others?
society will benefit because we will enjoy better services. Ill talk about how actually a positive market atmosphere will actually benefit the consumers & services later on, how it is actually more effective for us as a society to focus on positive competition instead of having to attack each other.




negative ad positive results
more competition -> better products




1. negative ads can be used to hold companies accountable. by exposing, companies can be held accountable for their unjust actions.
2. important to know the truth, neg ads are regulated by the market


Its naive for you to think that companies always play by the rules, an ambitious negative ad campaign can easily topple the reputation of their targeted competitor. this damage is irriversible.

Many studies already show that customers love drama and are vulnerable to misleading information. The thought that consumers are going to going to hold companies accountable is overly optimistic in a society where deception and bias is used to promote products.



3. neg ads can level the playing field. By underdogs to challenge dominant players, create a more competative enviornment

reb 1: neg ad must be false. 
reb 2: lose trust? more critical (biasly)

1. freedom of speech, without fear or censorship
2. consumers choice, valuable information

Jason: misleading information
Therefore show drawbacks of information

Dove 

K:Exagerrated claims, neg ads mean a win win situation 

1.Pos ad doesnt mean companies will be more transparent 
2.Encourages critical thinking by challengin the claims provided by companies, companies can promote informed decision mkaing
3.Market efficiency, allow customers to distunge between different brands  
4.Public interest, expose companies that conduct illegal activities = make companies act more responsibly 













Goal: doubt the quality of the competitors product


Exclude falsified claims.
neg ads pos outcomes
provide consumers with more information
expose unethical practices

providing a means of leveling the playing field

more information. -> more informed purchacing decisions (more effective at providing information)
promotes competition and innovation to gain competative advantage.


neg ad campaigns harmful -> Ad campaigns regulated
neg ad campigns can be designed in a way to be respectful


unethical and misleading -> designed in a way that is truthful



our dear opponents claimed that negative advertisements encourage innovation. Dear opponents, better products encourage innovation, not aggressive attacks. If you beat up your children to teach them lessons they WOULD learn. But is it ethical or neccessary? Similarly, negative ad campaigns used unethical ways to attack other companies, But their aim is not to help others improve at all. If you were going against competitors you wouldnt want them to innovate.


highlight competitors flaws

beneficial
allow: not 100% good

in line with freedom of speech & differentiate products
grabs attention and mobilise consumers

freedom actively attacking (equal status, one company is criticising others)
generate more attention than positive ads.



use positive over negative ads







concentrate on pointing out undesirable aspects

Help companies be better
enhance consumers awareness

neg ad can be factual, effective and promotes consumer awareness
companies survive due to negative advertising
push them to be competative
improve product quality

please be mindful of survivalship bias
regulations
effective way

neg ads create hostile -> this is because focused on negative, neg isnt bad infact it can hold companies accountable, promotes transparency
Effective in promoting healthy competition "telling ur friends that you are stronger"

what is wrong with u bro look i can actually type without looking at the screen







neg always aim to destroy other company?

without competition there is no market

they serve useful purposes
winwin consumers and market

no false information
consumers will be benefited: provide useful information might be
highlighting important information;


neg = biased, practically everbodys biased
there will be competition, there will be rivalries
negative ads were more effective for companies to improve
encourage innovation and shitMy claim X: the ONLY reason you care about intention is becaues it affects outcome

True or false: you believe that the intentions matter when outcome is the same


There are two types of scenarios.
1. a scenario where outcome is guaranteed to be the same
2. a scenario where outcome is not the same (real word)

note that in both scenarios, "outcome" is something at least somewhat subjectively measurable

for every time you are trying to prove that you only care about intention, you are giving an example of some scenario with DIFFERENT intentions and SAME outcome.

Ask yourself, whether the action is REALLY THE SAME.

Is the reason why you care about the intention because people with that intention are more likely in the future to to give you outcomes that benefit you?


It is important to consider that every action has a long term affect that would make the outcome different
Even if the short term outcome is the same <- this is why we need to educate people about long term effects, so that they learn the outcome is actually not the same.

For the case of teaching, carrie chan probably doesnt know that her students hate her because of what she does, or doesnt understand the long term outcome consequence for the students by being a strict teacher.

For the case of voting, the person who treats both the racist and thinking voter the same would be a fool, because they're only looking at the short term outcome.
The reason why you should choose the thinking voter is because in the future they would have more of a chance to produce an outcome that matches what you want.


accountable



negative ads are more effective







neg ad improves market efficiency

Neg ad -> marketing strag
does not have to be hostile

incentives

model: neg ads is complementary for consumer reviews.
all advertisement laws, defames competitors using false claims -> lawsuit
beneficial to consumers,

not direct comparison.
fails to provide sufficient information.



Neg ads only lead to hostile market -> neg ad doesnt always have to be hostile
misleading information

avoid mistakes.









Did bmw 







Journal. Thing.


I think the most important background that affected me would be my family enviornment. During my childhood and even up until right now, my family has always encouraged me to be critical about everything that I think is wrong, and challenge all ideas. This hugely affected how I look at the world because my parents never enforced any beliefs, and I always built up my own understanding of things, especially morals.

My place of origin (HK) also somewhat impacts my view on the world around me because I will look at vancouver through the lens of a busy city life person. Having been in a school in Hongkong, it makes school at argyle look extremely relaxed, maybe too relaxed.

I also came from a family with a drastically changing socioeconomic background. When I was in primary school, my family was very low class and we lived in an extremely small apartment in HongKong, but I don't think it effected me that much. If someone were to ask me what I thought about it, id have nothing much to say other than "yeah its pretty cool a family of 3 can fit in such a small space"

I realise being a male would shape my view, but I can't change that and also I will never experience being a female so I never think about it.

I also never think about my gender/sexuality. In fact, I don't even know the difference between those terms. I tell myself that no discrimination can happen if I cant even differentiate between the two.


In hongkong, we have no discussions on positionality and its a completely new concept to me. In the HK education system, we never have to talk about these types of things and I think it has a positive impact because people won't care about these types of things from the beginning, which is very nice. There is a general lack of differentiation in school other than grades, which is something you can change.






I think the point of language and generalization is to make complex things simpler to describe. The author mentions that they literally acknowledge that it IS complex, and to be respectful we should learn about it.
But then isn't calling 5 people a "group" disrespecting their individuality?? complexity is sometimes unavoidable but deliberate complexity is kind of stupid. The importance of specifying correct terminology and in what situations that is needed isnt really clarified






function mid(m1,m2){
    if(m1 == Infinity || m1 == -Infinity){
        if(m2 == Infinity || m2 == -Infinity){
            return(Infinity)
        }

    }
    if(m2 == Infinity || m2 == -Infinity){
        
    }
    return((m1*Math.sqrt(1/(1+m1*m1))+m2*Math.sqrt(1/(1+m2*m2)))/(Math.sqrt(1/(1+m1*m1))+Math.sqrt(1/(1+m2*m2))))
}











geographic situation centred at the junction of the Red and Assiniboine rivers. This close-knit community merged and adopted European and First Nations customs and lifestyles to meet the needs of the growing frontier settlement.


Language Name:
The Métis people do not have a distinct language of their own. Historically, they developed a unique mixed language called Michif, which incorporates elements of French and Cree or Ojibwe (both Algonquian languages). Michif evolved as a means of communication between French-speaking fur traders and Indigenous women of the Plains.

Geographic Situation:
The Métis people are an Indigenous group in Canada. They are primarily associated with the Prairie provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta, although Métis communities can also be found in other regions of Canada and the United States.

History:
The history of the Métis people is intertwined with the fur trade and the colonization of North America. Métis culture emerged as a distinct identity in the late 18th and early 19th centuries as a result of interactions between European fur traders, primarily of French and Scottish descent, and Indigenous peoples, particularly Cree and Ojibwe.

The Métis played a crucial role in the fur trade, serving as intermediaries between Indigenous nations and European traders. They developed a unique way of life, blending Indigenous and European customs, languages, and traditions. Métis communities formed around trading posts and grew in numbers as more individuals of mixed Indigenous and European ancestry joined their ranks.

The Métis led a semi-nomadic lifestyle, relying on hunting, fishing, and gathering for sustenance. They became skilled buffalo hunters and developed the Red River cart, a distinct mode of transportation. The Métis also established their own distinct governance system, with leaders known as "captains" and a Council of Elders.

The Métis played a significant role in Canadian history during the Red River Resistance of 1869-1870. Led by Louis Riel, they opposed the Canadian government's attempts to assert control over their lands and demanded recognition of their rights and culture. The resistance resulted in the creation of the province of Manitoba and the recognition of Métis land claims.

Culture:
Métis culture is a vibrant blend of European and Indigenous traditions. Their culture incorporates elements of French, Scottish, and Indigenous languages, music, dance, art, and cuisine. Métis cultural practices and celebrations often revolve around the preservation of their distinct identity and heritage.

Métis music is characterized by fiddle and accordion tunes, reflecting the influence of French and Scottish musical traditions. Traditional Métis dances, such as the Red River Jig, showcase intricate footwork and lively rhythms. Métis art often features beadwork, floral designs, and bright colors, with a focus on creating beautiful and functional items.

Métis cuisine combines Indigenous and European culinary traditions. Popular dishes include bannock (a type of bread), pemmican (a dried meat and fat mixture), and wild game such as bison and deer. Métis cuisine reflects their connection to the land and the importance of sustenance in their history.

Overall, Métis culture celebrates their unique heritage and serves as a testament to the resilience and creativity of the Métis people throughout history.











13/sep
How does the indigenous story vary from the understanding we already have about where we live?
where does this understanding come from
what does the two sisters message of peace and brotherhood say about reconciliations


Basically, war is stupid. Regardless of whether or not I think traditions are important, war is a waste of time resources and a step backwards in the progression of humanity. I really have nothing more to say other than the fact that I guess it is pretty cool and improbable that a war was ended with an invitation for a feast. Unfortunately there was not any more detail to this very interesting part of how two nations in war could suddenly just drop their anger. The fact that the cheif always won the war might have influenced the decision making of the enemies, fearing more loss they give up to this invitation and finally have a way to exit the gamble of war. To my knowledge, this is called a stop-loss in economics. Seen in even modern warfare, leaders that start a war will be stuck with this decision unless a safe exit is made for them. They don't end the war because that is a sign of weakness or backing down, which effects their image, so they continue with the war.
Reconciliations happen only when there was conflict to begin with, and it's sucn a focused upon idea because relative to continued war, practically anything would be better.

The role of the twin sisters in the story is pretty neat. The fact that they were the ones to suggest stopping the war really shows the pure nature of children and their simplistic mindset. I think it teaches us that sometimes the simplest purest lines of thought are the correct ones, and we should not overlook them as much as we do these days.

In many scenarios, there are many solutions that fixes or improves things. But I think it is important to find the optimal solution. Global warming can be partially fixed by geoengineering, but the final solution is to reduce carbon emissions, not capture them and dump them in the sea. Similarly, forgiveness is a way to lessen impact of war, but we should not have war in the first place. And to those who say "war and conflict is unavoidable", I say "then vengence and unforgivability is equally as unavoidable"

War. is. not. the. solution.


"lions of vancouver" 
legend making ages

twins born -> feast -> war?? -> guy wins a lot -> ignored attacks to feast -> invite enemies -> war ended -> ?? -> chief died

14/sep
British people thought they had cultural superiority but then there was actually superiority in so many aspects i dont think it is really wrong.

Culture is not incomprable.


Why do we make land acknowledgments? (good question. i dont know)
Its not enough to do the acknowledgements 

its stupid to do them if you dont know what it means (it only means something if you mean it and have a connection)

what does it mean to them -> the land is "connected to her" "i think about people" -> respect the land??



how many of you feel a connection to somewhere (what even is connection in this context)
why do i need to notice the trees and grass



Land acknowledgement
I acknowledge that i am on sqwamish & slaywatooth land. it is traditional and unceded territories. Unfortunately i cannot do a lot to the fact that the land is stolen. I apologise for that, and i also apologise for the fact that i am not spiritual, therefore i do not spiritually connect with this land.


I think the prospects of telling us to write the land acknowledgements & include words before explaining them is kind of wrong.

signed contracts in english (forced in starvation?)

15/9
"make sure that when you do the land acknowledgement you say X"

whats the point of listening to the blackbird song sang in a language we dont know

20/9
practically work
http://www.native-languages.org/tlingit-legends.htm

21/9

Kid Saltlake city cuz sister found job. mother proud did all on her own. "she hadnt been pregnant and she did real good" latecia?? old blown away museum. mom told to check. didnt wanana cross the boarders looking like americans, sweet grass would be on the canadian side. 'blackfoot'??. man bought her a coke. "we wouldnt freeze"

Journal 3, reflect on borders
how does mothers idea of nationhood differ from that of the first border agents
ho do the sons and mothers understandings differ and why

26/9
it seems everything is religious or mythological in the video.

27/9

28/9
worldview and religion
ethnocentrism

29/9
Journal 4: drawing upon your personal worldview discuss how we can step outside our worldview and appreciate that of others.

The working human mind comes preinstalled with a plethera of flaws and biases. I think the inability to understand others worldviews is extremely natural, but should be something we should fight against. We should handle beliefs and world views in the most unbiased way possible. That is not to say, we should appreciate any and all types of views, but that all views should stand up to the same scrutiny and analysing process indiscriminantly, following the same logic and thought path to a conclusion for any idea, and thats what Critical thinking is.

(i promise these two paragraphs are important)
Im almost sure the "critical" in critical thinking means you should be critical of your own beliefs. This is based on the fact that humans are very succeptable to accepting indoctorniation, doing things without thought. Critical thinking is the weapon against Cognitive bias.

In a math exam, it is extremely hard to find your own mistakes, because you are biased to believe that you are correct yourself, sometimes the mistakes can be very simple and horrifically easy to catch. This type of cognitive bias appears way more often than one might think, because other than math, you believe in literally everything else you do, otherwise why would you have done it? It is hard to catch your own mistakes, both in thought and math. but unlike in math, rudimentary flaws can have huge consequenses in morality, which is why critical thinking is very hard, but important.
To check your math, you look through each proof rigorously, approaching your own work as if you know it is wrong. The same goes for critical thinking and your own beliefs, you want to attack your own system of thought to find what might be wrong.

Going back to worldviews, you should analyse other peoples beliefs with the same system as you analyse yours. The more ANY idea stands up to attacks the more you have confidence in it. Many times we dont have the same worldviews as other people, because we are putting them up for much more scrutiny than ourselves. It is way more easy to find mistakes in others than yourself. Nowadays, many people know about this, but their approach is to have acceptance towards others views. I dont think this is correct. In math we dont look the other way and check lousily to say our peers are correct, the thing to do to correct cognitive bias is to provide the same thorough analysation for finding errors. The same should be true for thoughts. We shouldn't give lenience to others thoughts just like we give ours, we should be holding our own thoughts up to scrutiny just as much as we are giving other people.



I like this chart i made as a kid a lot:




5/10

lost island: north pacific, happy hunting ground "paleface" "weak as a woman" 

colonialism: control of power by 1 group, when a nation controls another, conquring its population, exploiting it. forcing culture onto them

exploitation: smaller number, settler: in mass



+-----------------------+-------------------------+
1. Why do I need to do a land acknowledgement?
- because the indiginous people want us to [2]

2. Can you give me a script for it?
- no. [3]
- yes. [9]

3. Then why do you want me to do a land acknowledgement, other than reading a script?
- I want you to respect the land [4]

4. Our opinions on what is respect is subjective. How do you want me to respect the land?
- have a spiritual connection [5]
- understand the fact that you stole it & actually know the contents of the script is true [6]

5. I am not spiritual. You have 3 choices:
- disrespect my beliefs and force me to say things i dont believe in []
- respectfully disagree & debate on my beliefs []
- accept that fact that i won't do land acknowledgements the way you want. []
- It doesn't need to be spiritual [9]

6. Ok. i understand the fact that people stole it from you, and im sorry for that [7][8]

7. So i can just say "I understand we stole this land from you"?

8. What is the point of me knowing about your spirituality when all i need to know is "stole ur land, sorry"?

9. There are boundaries of what I am willing to read. (e.g. i won't read what i dont believe in. e.g. "i murdered him")
- You agree. Read only if you believe in the content
- You disagree. You should read it because it's true


20. Do you agree with the fact that BCFP is mandatory?
- yes []
- no []


51. Is it true that for person X to respect person Y, person X should do whatever person Y says?
- yes. []
- no. not "whatever". there are boundaries []
- no. depends on what type of respect []
- no. depends on why you need to respect person []

61. this fact is very arbitrary, and subjective. if i don't have it i dont have it.

71. we are taking a look at a system different from ours. Why?
- the other system is more effective in some way/all ways []
- our current system has inefficiencies caused in the exact manner as the other system []
- the other system can be co-implemented with the current one for better results []


101. every thing you do is for your own benefit
- no (give me an example of why something you do is not for your own benefit)

102. something that makes you happy can be arbitrary.
- give me an example [103]

103. if you teach a 3 year old vegetables are good, to them the "good" is arbitrary. He does not understand how vegetables benefit him at all, although through reinforcement he can still be taught to like vegetables. The value becomes non-arbitrary when they can actually connect the "goodness" to something they care about, for example, he doesn't want to die. If he understands vegetables may make him live a better life, he will actually like eating vegetables without it being a non-arbitrary belief.
Arbitrary values are never good. The first thing you should tell someone is the bottom level connection to what they care about.
+-----------------------+-------------------------+


Take masses
set zero the spring scale

Equipment/aparatus needed:
multiple different Masses (50g-1kg)
a thin rope
spring scale (should have high enough resolution for the masses, use of different spring scales for heavier and lighter masses would be preferable)
Measuring cilinders
Beakers
Plastic container big enough to put beaker in



Procedures:
if you can fit the mass in a measuring cilinder use method 1, otherwise use method 2.


Method 1:
First, Fill the measuring cilinder with water. It should be enough to let the mass completely submerge, but not too much as to overfill when the mass is put in.

Then, take a measurement of the volume of water inside and write it down.

Attach one end of the string to the spring scale, zero the spring scale after the string is attached.
Put a mass on the string (idealy, the spring scale should have an exact reading equal to the mass)

Lower the mass into the measuring cilinder avoid having air bubbles below the mass. Stop as soon as the entire mass is submerged. Take a reading of both the apparent weight of the mass on the spring scale, and the new volume of water+mass in the cilinder. Try to hold the spring scale steadily, do not lean the mass on the side of the cilinder. The reading on the scale is the apparent weight of the mass when submerged.
Volume of water displaced = Volume after mass submerged - volume before mass submerged


Method 2:
Put a beaker that can fit the masses inside the container. Any water overflowing from the beaker should be caught by the container.

First, fill a beaker completely full with water. If there is any overflowing, dry the container below.

Lower the mass into the beaker, and stop as soon as it is entirely submerged. Take a reading of the apparent weight of the mass on the spring scale.

After water has stopped flowing, take the container and pour all water into a measuring cilinder. Write down the volume of water in the cilinders. (that is the volume of water displaced)




Repeat the steps for other masses. Remember to take measurement of water volume before putting new masses in, because some water might adhere to the mass when taking it out. Also zero the scale every time with the string because wet string weighs more.

The first reading may be optionally discarded because the string soaks up some water.

to calculate density (kg/m^3)
Buoyant force = the difference in apparent weight of the mass before and after fully submerging 
Buoyant force = weight of water displaced 
Weight of water displaced = volume of water displaced * density of water * g 

therefore, W = ρVg where W is the weight of displaced water, ρ is the density of water and V is the volume of water displaced.

because F = mg, m = F/g, density = F/m^3*g
plotting F against V would give a slope, and density = slope/g


Table:



Graph:




sources of error: 
1. the resolution of the spring scale and the resolution of the measuring cillinders
2. water may not be completely poured into the cillinders/stuck/adhered on the side (unavoidable when using method2)
3. the volume measured may vary a little because of the volume of the rope and the water soaked up from the rope
4. cohesion of water might add error to volume measurements








Buoyant work



1. 1-0.25 = 0.75, 0.75mg/0.25 = 3mg of force up. D.
2. When radius increases by a factor of 2, area increases by a factor of 4. Since velocity is proportional to area, the speed is 4 times less. so answer D.
3. Pressure is lowest when the fluid is moving fastest (bernoullis). Fluid moves fastes at a section with smallest area, because the same flow rate is achieved by A*V when A is small, v is big.
4. D, the first statement we can conclude the volume of both A and B is the same, because they have the same density and mass. With the second statement we conclude that B and C has the same volume, so all of their displaced water is the same volume and buoyant force up is the same.
5. Remains constat. this is because the volume of the water displaced stays constant (assuming density of water stays same which the question says it does.)
6. the Iron. Because the iron is displacing more water (100% of 50cm^3) compared to wood (<100% of 50cm^3)
7. is less, because the weight of the saltwater displaced is equal when there is less volume due to it being denser. This means the weight of liquid displaced is the thing that matters and the volume is less for denser liquids to achieve the same effect.
8. point B. When the diameter is larger, the area is larger and the flow rate must stay constant. so in a bigger area the velocity of liquid must be lower, and bernoullis equations tells us that slower fluids have less pressure. (given that they have the same height)
9. 4m/s because when the radius is reduced by a factor of 2, the area is reduced by a factor of 4 and the speed is increased by the same factor of 4.
10. C. they are all equal because the copper block displaced the same amount of water in the scenarios (and the question says water is incompressible which means the density is constant.)
11. D. the bouyant force is equal because the question states that it is floating, and since they have the same mass and the blocks arent flying anywhere, the bouyant force must be equal to mg which is the same since the mass is the same.
12. rho * V * g = 8, V = 8/1000*9.81
13. D. all other answers are less than 60. there is no way a block can float with less volume submerged in a medium of lower density
14. A. 4v because the area decreases by a factor of 4 so the velocity of liquid makes up so the flowrate stays constant by A1V1 = A2V2.
15. B. velocity in a smaller area is faster because there is a constant flow rate. Pressure in the faster area is smaller because bernoullis equations states P + 0.5rho*v^2 = constant
16. 0.4g-3 newtons because bouyant force = actual weight - apparent weight
17. D. the pressure is calculated by rho * g * h. the force is the same because the height of all the beakers are the same.
18. A. the pressure at the intersection area lowers beacuse the velocity of air travelling is faster. bernoullis equations states that the pressure will lower when the medium (air) is at a higher velocity. since there is less pressure, the water will get pushed up by surrounding atmospheric pressure.
19. C. theyre both the same because they displace the same 1 cubic centimeter of water volume of water.
20. Aluminum. A kilogram of aluminum has much more volume than a kilogram of iron because its density is lower, so the weight of water displaced is higher and aluminum feels a larger bouyant force.
21. 4/3 * PI * 0.4^3 * 1.4 * 10^3
22. A. The speed is decreased by a factor of 7 squared (49)
23. P + 0.5 rho * v^2 = X + 0.5 rho * 4v^2 + rho * g * y
24. C. bouyant force when fully submerged is rho * g * v where rho is the density of the liquid
25. B and C are true. they can be reasonably compared because they are in the same fluid system. Other answers are wrong because it is taking two points from different medium/systems.



1. An electric field is a region around a charged object where other charges experience a force. It describes the electric influence of the charged object
2. electric charges or time-varying magnetic fields produce electric fields, electric charges produce electric fields around them that can exert a force on other nearby charges
3. E = kQ/r^2 (where k = 1/(4πε0) = 8.99x10^9 Nm^2/C^2)
E = (8.99x10^9)(5x10^-6) / (50x10^-2)^2
E = 1x10^5 V/m
4. E = kQ/r^2
5x10^4 = kQ/(20x10^-2)^2
Q = 1x10^-6 C = 1 μC
5. (i) For a positive point charge, electric field lines will originate from the charge and radiate outward in all directions.
   (ii) For a negative point charge, electric field lines will terminate at the charge and radiate inward towards it from all directions.
6. the strength of an electric field decreases with the square of the distance from the source charge. The closer you get to the source charge, the stronger the electric field will be.
7. F = qE, 8x10^-16 = (1.6x10^-19 C)E
E = 8x10^-16 / 1.6x10^-19
E = 1x10^8 V/m
8. distance 2R from the centre:
E = 3×104 V/m
9. E = kq1/r^2 - kq2/r^2 
E = (8.99x10^9)(-6x10^-6)/(3x10^-2)^2 - (8.99x10^9)(6x10^-6)/(3x10^-2)^2
E = 1.5x10^4 V/m
10. less potential because it is closer to the negative charge
11. spheres B and C have the same charge because they touched and are conductive
12 F = (1.6x10-19)(250)
F = 4x10-19 N x 103 = 4x10-16 N = 1.6x10-15 N
13. electric potential increases towards + charge, decreases towards - charge
14. in the middle because the charges cancle out
15. E = 12/0.001
E = 12000 V/m = 1.2x10^5 V/m
16. F = 8-6 = 2N
17. root( (9 x 10 ^ -9 )^2)
18. the electric field curves down 
19. No. the electric field lines is not the path the electron takes but the force the electron feels at that point
20. E = 24x10^-16 / 1.6x10^-19
E = 3x10^8 V/m
21. there can only be 2 zero points of electric potential for 2 electrons
23. potential difference between B and A is equal to B and C because they A-B = B-C
24. Q = CV
Q = (8.85x10-8)(100) = 8.85x10-6 C = 0.885
E = 1/2(8.85x10-8)(100)2 = 0.5J
25. q = 1.6x10-19 C
F = qE
F = (1.6x10-19)(250)
F = 4x10-19 N × 103 = 4x10-16= 1.6x10-15N


biologee
For microtubules: talk about diameter, pulling chromosomes apart equally

    skript
    so we're going to talk about eukaryotic cytoskeletons. So does anyone know anything about the cytoskeleton and what it does? No. 

    The cytoskeletons are generally for providing cell structural support and keeping its shape. its composed of 3 main parts: The microtubules, Intermediate filaments & actin filaments.

    So here in this slide we see all about Microtubules. We kinda see the general structure and stuff over here at that image... so they are made of this protein called Tubulin, and there are two different types, each chain of alpha-beta alternating tubulin line is a protofilament, and a microtubule is made of a ring of 13 protofilaments. And when they disassemble it looks like peeling a banana. really cool

    Like the crash course video said there are different motor proteins that move on the microtubules with a walking action. During cell devision, they attach to the chromosome and pull the sister chromatids apart.

    Microtubules are also present at the bases of cilia and flagella in cells

    (switch person)

    So actin filaments are much smaller, and are made of a different type of protein called, surprisingly, actin.
    actin very dynamic. it is rapidly assembled and dissasembled in the cell, they offer mechanical and tensive support in the cell, and also help provide movement using a protein called Myosin as an anchor with the help of motor proteins and using energy from ATP. Very crucial part in muscle contraction

    It has a helical structure formed by twisting two strands of actin chains, and in between there are these lines which are Tropomyosin (traw-PO-MY-O-SIN), these are very small and long flexible proteins that contract and can help the actin filaments pull things together.

    One way in which actin filaments help the cells move is by assembling and polymerising rapidlyin one direction to push your cell in that direction. The extensions are called pseudopodia (sudo-poe-dea), and its how white blood cells move.

    Actin filaments also help during cell division in cytokinesis, by contracting in the middle and pinching the two cells

    (switch person)
    These are intermediate filaments and they are just a little bigger in diameter than actin filaments. They are more specialized but still provide a lot of structural support. Intermediate filaments help with cell adhesion (which means different cells sticking together), and they help maintain cell and tissue integrity.
    It helps hold the nucleus at its place and can help with cell to cell anchoring as well.

    So as we see the structure here looks like a coiled up rope, and they're formed by these polypeptide chains.

    Although it looks kind of like the actin filaments before these are actually not made of actin. Unlike the other two which are made of distinct monomers, There are many types of Intermediate filaments and they can be made of different proteins like keratin, Vimentin, Desmin, or other unheard of proteins.

    Compared to actin filaments, intermediate filaments are more durable. This comes at a cost of being less dynamic, so they can't be reassembled as fast.

    ....

    Analogy...

    in summary, these different types of cytoskeletons are all made of long chained protein polymers, and they help provide cells structural support and move organells/membranes around. thank you for ur time





math
rock: 40 kg
-> abcd (intagers) 1,2,3,34








